+++
description = ""
date = "2015-02-26T16:28:14-08:00"
menu = "main"
title = "GH Pages deploy for Hugo"
+++

So, you converted your infamous coding blog from Jekyll to Hugo. Right on! Hugo's speed performance makes it an attractive option. What I appreciated most about Jekyll was its ease in pushing code to Github pages. I could deploy my master branch to a designated Github repo, open my browser to www.andy4thehuynh.github.io and see my changes almost instantaneously. Hugo has its own solution in a more verbose fashion than Jekyll. I found their solution long and daunting coming from Jekyll.

I found a quicker solution to my troubles. Shout out to Codegangsta for your help. Here's a step by step guide to setup your Hugo repo to deploy to Github Pages like Jekyll:

1. Start a Hugo repo locally and a Github repo with your username followed by github.io. For example, mine would be `andy4thehuynh.github.io`.
2. `cd` into your repo. Compile hugo by using the `hugo server -w` command.
3. Create a `.gitignore` file and add "public" to your file. ((TODO: Find the unix cat command to >> into .gitignore))
4. Currently, you're in a master branch in the root of your blog directory. Create a new branch called source by doing `git checkout -b source`. Do a `git add -A` and `git commit -m "Initial Commit"` to your changes. Add your remote by doing `git remote add origin <ssh.github.git>`. Push this to your Repo.
5. Now, `cd` into your public/ folder and notice git is not keeping track of this folder. We do this because when we push to Github, GH pages only recognizes the master branch of the repo. Do a `git init` and make sure you're on a master branch. Again, do a `git add -A` and `git commit -m "Inital commit"`. Add the same remote from the previous step and push your changes to Github.
6. Open a browser to your Github repo and notice you can switch between your source and master branch. Your source branch contains all your content while your master contains your public content.
7. Give or take 10 minutes, you can go to your page and check out your site in production. 

Everytime you've created content, simply compile your changes by doing `hugo server -w` and pushing your public folder to your remote repo. Just like that, you've got the Jekyll setup for Hugo.
